# TE-2-24-SPIROID-ALIENS

## by M Allison, 3095 
This is quite a long program and shows the length of listing required to achieve a degree of realism. The game uses all of page 0800 and portions of 0900, 0A00, 0B00 and 0D00. The main program is at 0800 with calls at the other pages. The game consists of unusual shaped aliens passing across the display. Each game consists of 16 passes and you must shoot down the arrivals by pressing buttons 1, 2 or 3. To win, you must shoot down at least 11. In the initial stages of the game, you must acquaint yourself with the connection betweeen the spiroid shapes and buttons 1, 2, 3. After this you will be ready to launch an attack.  
## Here's the listing: 

Finally, the listing at 0900 must be inserted. This listing can be found in issue 11 P 36, under the heading ALIENS ATTACK RUN. This will provide the sound for the game. This completes the listing. Before pushing RESET, GO, it is a very good idea to go through the complete listing again and double-check each of the machine code values. The reason for this is to prevent the program SELF DESTRUCTING. This could happen if you placed the wrong value in one of the locations which caused the computer to write over some of the contents of the program.  

## PUSH & POP
PUSH and POP are very much like PUSH and PULL They are operations which transfer the contents of a register-pair to a holding area so that the registers can be used for other operations. This holding area is called the STACK. We say register PAIR because the  operations PUSH and POP require that 2 registers be specified. Thus, if the accumulator (Register A) is required to be pushed onto the stack, we combine it with the FLAGS register to get the register pair: AF. There are a few technical complications concerning the placement of bytes onto the stack but these will not concern us at this stage. It is sufficient to say that the stack is located at the top end of the RAM, (about 8 - 10 bytes from the top)and as each new set of bytes is placed on the stack, the pile grows DOWNWARDS, towards the program we are executing. We have already seen the effect of placing (PUSHING) more and more bytes onto the stack (issue 11, P. 12)  and for this reason we must use the stack very carefully. Otherwise it will increase downwards and and crash into our program! Basically we PUSH one pair of bytes onto the stack (from say register-pair AF) then push another pair of bytes onto the stack from say register pair
HL. This will leave the accumulator and HL registers free for other operations. If we want to get the 2 bytes of AF from the stack, we must firstly POP the two bytes from HL and then we can get the AFpair. It is a simple principle of LAST ON, FIRST OFF. Pushing and popping are very handy instructions. By using a PUSH instruction at the start of a routine and a POP at the end, we can place a routine such as a delay routine, which will not affect the registers at all. This routine is said to be TRANSPARENT. PUSHING and POPPING can take place between the stack and register pairs including the index registers. This group consists of the following: AF, BC, DE, HL,IX and IY. It is interesting to note that the bytes are pushed onto the stack HIGH BYTE first, then LOW BYTE. They come off the stack LOW BYTE then HIGH BYTE. But because the stack is increasing DOWNWARDS, each byte placed onto the stack will have a lower address! In the programs we have presented you can see PUSH and POP in operation. The stack is a temporary holding area and only the top pair can be accessed. 

